Surveillance Capitalism contains two related aspects: the first part is for those capital, us to collect personal data of different aspects in different methods; while the second is by analysing those data, they can pruduce specialised products (predictions) that results in the influence of human decision and behavior.




I'm very surprised to find that I have actually echoed some of her ideas in my previous response for other readings! I remember I mentioned users exchange their data for the free use of apps in the current business model, and in the video she stresses that the companies and users both take each other for free; another is that she mentioned some of predictions that generated by those companies will affect publich preference leading the result more tend to the prediction, while I remember I mentioned an example of stock market that the prediction of stock market often performs better then it should be because it influence people's decision. But I only considered them as individual cases of social phenomenons but didn't linked the together and reached to the concept of survillence capitalism.

The whole country is a very good example of survillence capitalism, all our behavior can be easily collected by the government and the government controls almost all channels of media so that they can decide to let whom see what information. And in real life there are many cases people's emotions get influenced by the targeted propagation throught the whole internet. One most recent example is the doctor Wang Guangfa in China, saying corona virus "can be prevented and can be controlled", which eased people and caused the virus to spread to the whole world.
but the difference is that the author mainly mentioned the companies, because they do those things implicitly, we are only aware of that quite recently, but for the country it has already been a truth many knows.

A question i want to ask for the author is that: for the companies, are they aware that the conduct of survillence capitalism just as a good tool to make money (in other words the purpose and motivation of those companies); or are they purposedly and consciously manipulating people's decision and behavior and potentially have more plan then just making money and growing thier business. It is a very important because in the previous case the company caused a probelm need to be solved, but in the latter case the companies and their boards are the problem need to be solved.
